## Overview

| Developed by | Guardrails AI |
| --- | --- |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type | Format |
| Blog | - |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

## Description

This validator validates the "cleanliness" of the text generated by a language model. It uses a pre-trained model to determine if the text is coherent and not gibberish. The validator can be used to filter out text that is not coherent or does not make sense.

## Requirements
- Dependencies: `nltk`, `transformers`, `torch`

## Installation

```bash
guardrails hub install hub://guardrails/gibberish_text
```

## Usage Examples

### Validating string output via Python

In this example, we use the `gibberish_text` validator on any LLM generated text.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import GibberishText
from guardrails import Guard

# Use the Guard with the validator
guard = Guard().use(
    GibberishText, threshold=0.5, validation_method="sentence", on_fail="exception"
)

# Test passing response
guard.validate(
    "Azure is a cloud computing service created by Microsoft. It's a significant competitor to AWS."
)

try:
    # Test failing response
    guard.validate(
        "Floppyland love great coffee okay. Fox fox fox. Move to New York City."
    )
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
```
Output:
```console
Validation failed for field with errors: The following sentences in your response were found to be gibberish:

- Floppyland love great coffee okay.
- Fox fox fox.
```
**Note: See how only the first 2 sentences within the failing response are considered gibberish.**

## API Reference

**`__init__(self, threshold=0.5, validation_method='sentence', on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>

Initializes a new instance of the Validator class.

**Parameters:**

- **`threshold`** *(float):* The confidence threshold (model inference) for text "cleanliness". 
    Defaults to 0.5.
- **`validation_method`** *(str):* Whether to validate at the sentence level or over the full text. Must be one of `sentence` or `full`. 
    Defaults to `sentence`
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable):* The policy to enact when a validator fails. If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.

</ul>

<br/>

**`__call__(self, value, metadata={}) → ValidationResult`**

<ul>

Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters:**

- **`value`** *(Any):* The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict):* A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. No additional metadata keys are needed for this validator.

</ul>
